All right, so
here's our Development Process.
So the first thing that we'll do
is we'll create the Mock for the DAO,
we'll inject the Mock into the service,
we'll set up expectations,
we'll call the method under test and assert the results.
And finally, we'll verify the method calls.
Starting with step one of creating the Mock for the DAO.
So here's our test.
We have a field here, private application applicationDao.
So we'll create a Mock for the DAO.
We make use of the add Mock annotation,
and that's an annotation that we get from Mockito framework.
So this effectively here creates a test double for this DAO,
and later on we can set up expectations for it.
In step two we inject the mock into the service.
So we have this new entry here
for private Application Service,
and then we make use of this add InjectMocks,
so this basically inject the mock dependencies
and the injectMocks annotation is also
from the Mockido framework.
Now, one thing to note here about the InjecMocks
is that it injects the mock dependencies,
but it will only inject the dependencies
that are annotated with Mock or Spy.
So it won't handle any non-mock dependencies.
But don't worry about it,
I have some code that I'll show you in some upcoming videos
that will address this specific issue
but for now we just simply make use of InjectMocks.
Just a quick recap here,
setting up our expectations.
And the set up phase we'll provide the responses
for the given method calls.
So let's talk about this a bit more.
So setting up the expectations,
so when a method doSomeWork is called,
then I'll return "I am finished."
Basically I'm saying
when something happens then this is the response.
Again, just like in theater,
you can tell the other person, "Hey, when I say my line,
then you respond with your line."
In this coding example here, I have this string
aRresponse equals I'm finished.
So when doSomeWork,
so that's a method that we're calling, then return
the given response.
Alright, so we're basically setting up some mock code here.
So when somebody calls doSomeWork
then respond with this given information.
And this is stuff that we'll do for our DAO.
We'll tell our DAO, "Hey, when they call this given method,
then return this data."
Alright, now the response can be a string,
it can be a Boolean,
it could be an ArrayList,
it could be an Object.
Whatever you want to return
that that given method is supposed to return,
that's the type of value or data that you can return.
And again, the real world analogy in the theater
just read the script,
I'll say my line, then you say your line.
So let's kind of pull this together with some coding.
So at the bottom here, we have this test
When and Verify for assertEqualsTestAddGrades.
So I set up the expectations for the mock response.
So I have when and then return.
So when the method addGreatResultsForSingleClass is called,
then return 100.
So the key here is that we're basically mocking
this method here addGreatResultsForSingleClass.
So when they make a call to that method
then we're going to return 100.
We really don't execute any of the internal code there,
we kind of just set up this mock response
for this given method.
Now in step four,
we call the method under test and assert the results.
So this is kind of like normal JUnit testing, right?
So here we have assert equals 100.0,
and then application service addGreatResultsForSingleClass.
Now, the key here is that we're calling this service.
The service makes use of the DAO.
We've already mocked the DAO
for that given method to return 100.
And so this given test will pass accordingly.
But the key here is to be aware of that
we've already set the expectations for the DAO.
It's one of our dependencies
at the application service we use
when it makes its given call.
And then in step five, we verify the method calls.
So in the verify,
you can verify how many times a given method was called.
So here in this example,
I'll say verify ApplicationDao times one.
You can use this in your application,
you could say for this given logic,
we should have called a given method X number of times
and you can kind of use that to verify that information.
And kind of recap.
So again, this whole idea of mocking
the first thing you do is you set up.
So that's the setting expectations with the mock response
using the whens,
then we execute, then we assert
and then we verify by checking how many times
a given method was called.
In terms of Mockito resources
there's some additional features of Mockito,
such as stubs and spies, argument matchers,
answers and so on.
You can get more information
on these features at the Mockito website.
Alrighty, let's go ahead and move into the next video
and let's start mocking some code!